---
layout: default
title: Phenomenon
parent: Element Categories
grand_parent: Specification
nav_order: 13
---

# Phenomenon

**Definition**

*A natural or supernatural occurrence with some impact or meaning*

A Phenomenon represents any event or process, possibly with extraordinary or unexplained origins, that can affect the environment, inhabitants, or fabric of reality within the world.  

**Examples**
- A slight breeze
- Phosphorescent damp
- Rippling lightning

**[Discussion](https://github.com/OnlyWorlds/OnlyWorlds/discussions/categories/Phenomenon)**

Potential alternate names: *Occurrence, Anomaly*

---
### Manifest
- **Presence**: Observable or detectable existence of the phenomenon.
- **Scope**: Extent or range over which the phenomenon operates or affects.
- **Duration** (#): Length of time the phenomenon typically lasts.
- **Intensity**: Measure of strength or severity of the phenomenon.
- **Empowerments** (multi-link: Trait): Traits or abilities that the phenomenon enhances or bestows.
- **Environments** (multi-link: Location): Specific locations where the phenomenon is known to occur.
- **Carriers** (multi-link: Species): Species that can carry or propagate the phenomenon.

### Actuate
- **Effect**: Direct effects or outcomes generated by the phenomenon.
- **Catalysts** (single-link: Object): Objects that initiate or enhance the phenomenon.
- **Wielders** (multi-link: Character): Individuals capable of controlling or utilizing the phenomenon.
- **Handlers** (multi-link: Institution): Organizations or institutions responsible for managing or researching the phenomenon.
- **Enablers** (multi-link: Character): Individuals who enable or support the manifestation of the phenomenon.
- **Triggers** (multi-link: Construct): Constructs that act as triggers to activate or trigger the phenomenon.
- **Affinity** (multi-link: Phenomenon): Related phenomena that share characteristics or are influenced by this phenomenon.

